# GRATER
Source to source transformation tool to optimize bitwidth in OpenCL kernels

GRATER is a design workflow that automatically leverages approximation to provide more opportunities for the FPGA accelerators to utilize data-level parallelism and achieve higher throughput. It automatically reduces required hardware area for synthesizing an instance of an OpenCL kernel. This required area is determined by the precision of data and operations which is specified by the kernel program. By selectively reducing the precision, a larger number of parallel approximate kernels can be mapped in the fixed area budget of an FPGA. GRATER provides a readily applicable workflow that exploits the inherent error tolerance of the emerging applications for higher computational throughput with off-the-shelf FPGAs. 
This tool systematically tunes the precision of the operations and data in the input OpenCL kernel, subject to a statistical target for quality-of-result. GRATER uses a source-to-source compiler that leverages an automated transformation to selectively reduce the precision. The precision of the data and operations are automatically inferred from the precision of their operands. We devise a genetic programming-based optimization algorithm that assigns various precision levels to different data and operations in the kernel. We use genetic programming to evolve kernel variants until one is found with optimal assignments that reduces synthesized kernel area while stochastically satisfying the quality-of-result target. 
The transcompiler is developed in Python. We evaluated GRATER with a diverse set of data-intensive OpenCL benchmarks selected from the AMD APP SDK v2.9. The synthesis result on an Altera Stratix V FPGA shows that the reduced area of the transformed approximate kernels yields 1.4×–3.0× higher throughput with less than 1% loss of quality.
